# In a Predicate Method, how do we establish equivalence?

## 1. What is the simplest way to write a method that governs behavior in a game of Lights Out? → How do we determine if a lights out game is solvable? E.g. is the board solvable?

* Why is this lowk complicated
  * https://www.jaapsch.net/puzzles/lomath.htm#solvtest
  * https://www.logicgamesonline.com/lightsout/tutorial.html
* isSolvable()
  * find sums of values in QP1 and QP2 (first 2 values of top, middle and bottom lines vertically and horizontally).
  Return False if this sum is odd.
  * Why should this be a method though, shouldn't it be built into the matrix generation so that no matrix generated
  is a faulty, unsolvable game?




## 2. How do we establish whether or not a King is in Check in a game of Chess?
I like this method since the chess game in my mind would have a view function displaying possible move once you click on
a piece anyways ://

* Chess Piece Class - which lives in the Manager to ensure the game logic is being implemented
  * onBoard
  * curPosition
  * **vision()** method that governs how it could move in the next turn
    * start with 8x8 binary matrix of board generated by all possible move for that piece in that position ignoring
    impacts of other pieces on board 
  * **getPossibleCapture()**
    * within vision(), check whether there are pieces on path that can be captured using the specific piece's capture
    method (normal capture (capture upon moving), pawn capture or en passant)
    * replace 1s with 2s on matrix for possible
    capture
  * **getDiscoverChecks()**
    * method only for non-King pieces 
    * if a piece's vision method interact with another piece's curPosition, those pieces are locked and do not have a
    vision matrix
    * return empty matrix
  * **isChecked()**
    * predicate method only for King 
    * if King is in another piece's capturable matrix, it is checked 
    * return bool value
  * return 8x8 matrix

* Main game loop 
  * if piece onBoard()
  * enqueue piece starting from and pieces closest to king (isClosestKing()) and king last for isChecked()
  * calc curPos()
    * view.display() piece based on curPos()? 
  * loop through every piece in queue, make vision() matrix per piece


3. What are the most efficient methods of establishing this information?
From chatting w Dr. Dym -- this is exercises to imagine different designs and how would that affect (space complexity?)
and design streamline (if each space object runs the game logic, then you would have to instantiate 64 objects, plus
those don't go away as the game progress)